---
layout: page
title: Machine Translation
---

Machine translation is the task of translating a sentence in a source language to a different target language.

Approaches for machine translation can range from rule-based to statistical to neural-based. More recently, encoder-decoder attention-based architectures like BERT have attained major improvements in machine translation.

One of the most popular datasets used to benchmark machine translation systems is the WMT family of datasets. Some of the most commonly used evaluation metrics for machine translation systems include BLEU, METEOR, NIST, and others.

[WMT1](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W/W16/W16-2301): The training data comes from Europarl Parallel Corpus, News Commentary Parallel Corpus, Common Crawl Parallel Corpus, United Nations Parallel Corpus, Yandex 1M Parallel Corpus, Billion Word Parallel Corpus, CzEng Parallel Corpus, Wiki Headlines Parallel Corpus, Europarl Language Model Data, News Language Model Data, and Common Crawl Language Model Data. The test set contains 3000 sentences each from six European languages (German, Czech, Russian, Finnish, Romanian, and Turkish) translated to English. Other datasets include:
        1. WMT 2014
        1. OpenSubtitles
        1. MLQA
        1. Multi30k
        1. ASPEC
        1. MTNT
        1. WMT2018
        1. WMT 2015

Some important papers in machine translation include:
1. 2014 - Neural Machine Translation by Jointly Learning to Align and Translate: Neural machine translation is a recently proposed approach to machine translation. Unlike the traditional statistical machine translation, the neural machine translation aims at building a single neural network that can be jointly tuned to maximize the translation performance. The models proposed recently for neural machine translation often belong to a family of encoder-decoders and consists of an encoder that encodes a source sentence into a fixed-length vector from which a decoder generates a translation. In this paper, we conjecture that the use of a fixed-length vector is a bottleneck in improving the performance of this basic encoder-decoder architecture, and propose to extend this by allowing a model to automatically (soft-)search for parts of a source sentence that are relevant to predicting a target word, without having to form these parts as a hard segment explicitly. With this new approach, we achieve a translation performance comparable to the existing state-of-the-art phrase-based system on the task of English-to-French translation. Furthermore, qualitative analysis reveals that the (soft-)alignments found by the model agree well with our intuition.
1. 2014 NeurIPS - Sequence to Sequence Learning with Neural Networks: Our method uses a multilayered Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) to map the input sequence to a vector of a fixed dimensionality, and then another deep LSTM to decode the target sequence from the vector. Our main result is that on an English to French translation task from the WMT'14 dataset, the translations produced by the LSTM achieve a BLEU score of 34.8 on the entire test set, where the LSTM's BLEU score was penalized on out-of-vocabulary words. Additionally, the LSTM did not have difficulty on long sentences. For comparison, a phrase-based SMT system achieves a BLEU score of 33.3 on the same dataset. When we used the LSTM to rerank the 1000 hypotheses produced by the aforementioned SMT system, its BLEU score increases to 36.5, which is close to the previous best result on this task. The LSTM also learned sensible phrase and sentence representations that are sensitive to word order and are relatively invariant to the active and the passive voice. Finally, we found that reversing the order of the words in all source sentences (but not target sentences) improved the LSTM's performance markedly, because doing so introduced many short term dependencies between the source and the target sentence which made the optimization problem easier. 
1. 2017 NeurIPS - Attention Is All You Need: We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including ensembles by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes well to other tasks by applying it successfully to English constituency parsing both with large and limited training data.
1. 2019 Google - Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer: T5, or Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer, is a Transformer based architecture that uses a text-to-text approach. Every task – including translation, question answering, and classification – is cast as feeding the model text as input and training it to generate some target text. This allows for the use of the same model, loss function, hyperparameters, etc. across our diverse set of tasks. The changes compared to BERT include: a) adding a causal decoder to the bidirectional architecture and b) replacing the fill-in-the-blank cloze task with a mix of alternative pre-training tasks.
1. 2020 ACL - BART: Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language Generation, Translation, and Comprehension - BART is a denoising autoencoder for pretraining sequence-to-sequence models. It is trained by (1) corrupting text with an arbitrary noising function, and (2) learning a model to reconstruct the original text. It uses a standard Transformer-based neural machine translation architecture. It uses a standard seq2seq/NMT architecture with a bidirectional encoder (like BERT) and a left-to-right decoder (like GPT). This means the encoder's attention mask is fully visible, like BERT, and the decoder's attention mask is causal, like GPT2.
1. 2021 Google Flan - Finetuned Language Models Are Zero-Shot Learners - instruction tuning
1. 2021 UT Austin - Massive-scale Decoding for Text Generation using Lattices - We present a search algorithm to construct lattices encoding a massive number of generation options. First, we restructure decoding as a best-first search, which explores the space differently than beam search and improves efficiency by avoiding pruning paths. Second, we revisit the idea of hypothesis recombination: we can identify pairs of similar generation candidates during search and merge them as an approximation.