---
layout: page
title: Question Answering
---

Question Answering is the task of answering questions (typically reading comprehension questions), but abstaining when presented with a question that cannot be answered based on the provided context.

Question answering can be segmented into domain-specific tasks like community question answering and knowledge-base question answering. Popular benchmark datasets for evaluation question answering systems include SQuAD, HotPotQA, bAbI, TriviaQA, WikiQA, and many others. Models for question answering are typically evaluated on metrics like EM and F1. Some recent top performing models are T5 and XLNet.

Datasets
    1. SQuAD: The Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD) is a collection of question-answer pairs derived from Wikipedia articles. In SQuAD, the correct answers of questions can be any sequence of tokens in the given text. Because the questions and answers are produced by humans through crowdsourcing, it is more diverse than some other question-answering datasets. SQuAD 1.1 contains 107,785 question-answer pairs on 536 articles. SQuAD2.0 (open-domain SQuAD, SQuAD-Open), the latest version, combines the 100,000 questions in SQuAD1.1 with over 50,000 un-answerable questions written adversarially by crowdworkers in forms that are similar to the answerable ones.
    1. HotPotQA: HotpotQA is a question answering dataset collected on the English Wikipedia, containing about 113K crowd-sourced questions that are constructed to require the introduction paragraphs of two Wikipedia articles to answer. Each question in the dataset comes with the two gold paragraphs, as well as a list of sentences in these paragraphs that crowdworkers identify as supporting facts necessary to answer the question.
    1. bAbl: The bAbI dataset is a textual QA benchmark composed of 20 different tasks. Each task is designed to test a different reasoning skill, such as deduction, induction, and coreference resolution. Some of the tasks need relational reasoning, for instance, to compare the size of different entities. Each sample is composed of a question, an answer, and a set of facts. There are two versions of the dataset, referring to different dataset sizes: bAbI-1k and bAbI-10k. The bAbI-10k version of the dataset consists of 10,000 training samples per task.
    1. TriviaQA: TriviaQA is a realistic text-based question answering dataset which includes 950K question-answer pairs from 662K documents collected from Wikipedia and the web. This dataset is more challenging than standard QA benchmark datasets such as Stanford Question Answering Dataset (SQuAD), as the answers for a question may not be directly obtained by span prediction and the context is very long. TriviaQA dataset consists of both human-verified and machine-generated QA subsets.
    1. WikiQA: The WikiQA corpus is a publicly available set of question and sentence pairs, collected and annotated for research on open-domain question answering. In order to reflect the true information need of general users, Bing query logs were used as the question source. Each question is linked to a Wikipedia page that potentially has the answer. Because the summary section of a Wikipedia page provides the basic and usually most important information about the topic, sentences in this section were used as the candidate answers. The corpus includes 3,047 questions and 29,258 sentences, where 1,473 sentences were labeled as answer sentences to their corresponding questions.

Papers
    1. 2019 - T5 - Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer
    1. 2019 NeurIPS - DistilBERT, a distilled version of BERT: smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter: DistilBERT is a small, fast, cheap and light Transformer model based on the BERT architecture. Knowledge distillation is performed during the pre-training phase to reduce the size of a BERT model by 40%. To leverage the inductive biases learned by larger models during pre-training, the authors introduce a triple loss combining language modeling, distillation and cosine-distance losses.